{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 Times New Roman;}}\f0\fs24
\b The Art of War\b0\par\i by Sun Tzu\i0\par\par
\b P1:\b0 *** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ART OF WAR ***\par
\b P2:\b0 THE OLDEST MILITARY TREATISE IN THE WORLD Translated from the Chinese with Introduction and Critical Notes\par
\b P3:\b0 Assistant in the Department of Oriental Printed Books and MSS.\par
\b P4:\b0 may yet contain lessons worth consideration\par
\b P5:\b0 When Lionel Giles began his translation of Sun Tzŭ’s _Art of War_, the work was virtually unknown in Europe. Its introduction to Europe began in 1782 when a French Jesuit Father living in China, Joseph Amiot, acquired a copy of it, and translated it into French. It was not a good translation because\par
\b P6:\b0 The first translation into English was published in 1905 in Tokyo by Capt. E. F. Calthrop, R.F.A. However, this translation is, in the words of Dr. Giles, "excessively bad." He goes further in this criticism: "It is not merely a question of downright blunders, from which none can hope to be wholly e\par
\b P7:\b0 The seventh volume of _Mémoires concernant l’histoire, les sciences, les arts, les mœurs, les usages, &c., des Chinois_ is devoted to the Art of War, and contains, amongst other treatises, “Les Treize Articles de Sun-tse,” translated from the Chinese by a Jesuit Father, Joseph Amiot. Père Amiot appe\par
\b P8:\b0 _De l’habileté dans le gouvernement des Troupes._ Sun-tse dit : Ayez les noms de tous les Officiers tant généraux que subalternes; inscrivez-les dans un catalogue à part, avec la note des talents & de la capacité de chacun d’eux, afin de pouvoir les employer avec avantage lorsque l’occasion en sera \par
\b P9:\b0 Throughout the nineteenth century, which saw a wonderful development in the study of Chinese literature, no translator ventured to tackle Sun Tzŭ, although his work was known to be highly valued in China as by far the oldest and best compendium of military science. It was not until the year 1905 tha\par
\b P10:\b0 From blemishes of this nature, at least, I believe that the present translation is free. It was not undertaken out of any inflated estimate of my own powers; but I could not help feeling that Sun Tzŭ deserved a better fate than had befallen him, and I knew that, at any rate, I could hardly fail to i\par
\b P11:\b0 Ssu-ma Ch’ien gives the following biography of Sun Tzŭ: [1] Sun Tzŭ Wu was a native of the Ch’i State. His _Art of War_ brought him to the notice of Ho Lu, [2] King of Wu. Ho Lu said to him: "I have carefully perused your 13 chapters. May I submit your theory of\par
\b P12:\b0 Ho Lu asked: "May the test be applied to women?" The answer was again in the affirmative, so arrangements were made to bring 180 ladies out of the Palace. Sun Tzŭ divided them into two companies, and placed one of the King’s favourite concubines at the head of each. He then bade them all take spears\par
\b P13:\b0 Sun Tzŭ went on: "When I say "Eyes front," you must look straight ahead. When I say "Left turn," you must face towards your left hand. When I say "Right turn," you must face towards your right hand. When I say "About turn," you must face right round towards your back." Again the girls assented. The \par
\b P14:\b0 So he started drilling them again, and this time gave the order "Left turn," whereupon the girls once more burst into fits of laughter. Sun Tzŭ: "If words of command are not clear and distinct, if orders are not thoroughly understood, the general is to blame. But if his orders _are_ clear, and the s\par
\b P15:\b0 So saying, he ordered the leaders of the two companies to be beheaded. Now the king of Wu was watching the scene from the top of a raised pavilion; and when he saw that his favourite concubines were about to be executed, he was greatly alarmed and hurriedly sent down the following message: "We are n\par
}